Add Quickstart Next.js (#2450)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/quickstarts/quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web.mdx

---
title: Next.js
description: Quickstart integration of a Next.js web application with FusionAuth
navcategory: getting-started
prerequisites: npm, node
section: web
technology: Next.js
language: JavaScript
icon: /img/icons/nextjs.svg
faIcon: fa-n
color: green
coderoot: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web/main
cta: EmailListCTA
---
import Aside from '/src/components/Aside.astro';
import LoginAfter from '../../diagrams/quickstarts/login-after.astro';
import LoginBefore from '../../diagrams/quickstarts/login-before.astro';
import RemoteCode from '/src/components/RemoteCode.astro';

In this quickstart you are going to build an application with Express and integrate it with FusionAuth.

> You'll be building it for [ChangeBank](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pkH-kD73QUM), a global leader in converting dollars into coins.

Reviewer: Update the video to https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CXDxNCzUspM

It'll have areas reserved for users who have logged in as well as public facing sections.

The docker compose file and source code for a complete application are available at

> https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web).
```

```

Also copy an image file into a new directory within `public` called `img`.

```shell
mkdir ./public/img && cp ../complete-application/public/img/money.jpg ./public/img/money.jpg
```

As you will be recreating all of the files in our app directory, please delete all files within `/src/app`.

```shell
rm -rf ./src/app && mkdir ./src/app
```

## Authentication

Next.js 13.2 introduced <a href="https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/router-handlers" target="_blank">Route Handlers</a>, which are the preferred way to handle REST-like requests. In the `Changebank` application you can configure NextAuth.js FusionAuth's provider in a new route handler by creating a file within `src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts`.

On first load of Next.js this file will make sure that you have all of the correct environment variables. The variables are then exported in an object called `authOptions` which can be imported on the server when you need to get our session using `getServerSession`.

The `FusionAuthProvider` is then provided to `NextAuth` as a provider for any `GET` or `POST` commands that are sent to the `/api/auth/*` route.

> Create a new file named `src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts` and copy the following CSS for the ChangeBank application.

Reviewer: CSS?

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts"}
  lang="ts" />

## App Customization

### Styles

> Create a new file named `src/app/globals.css` copy the below CSS for the ChangeBank application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new file named `src/app/globals.css` and copy the below CSS for the ChangeBank application.
```

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/globals.css"}
  lang="ts" />

### Login Button

> Create a new file in `src/components/login-button.tsx` that will be used for a button component. Our login button will only be used on the client side so make sure to add `use client` at the top of this file.

Reviewer: I think it needs to be `LoginButton.tsx`. That is what it is in `complete-application` and I get an error when working through these steps.

For this button you can use the `signIn` and `signOut` functions from `next-auth/react`. By passing in the session from our pages you can determine if the `Log in` or `Log out` should be shown.

> Create a new file named `src/components/login-button.tsx` copy the below code for the ChangeBank application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the below code for the ChangeBank application into  `src/components/login-button.tsx`.
```

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/components/LoginButton.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

### Layout

<Aside type="tip">
If this is your first time using Next.js's App Router, you should read through <a href="https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing" target="_blank">Routing Fundamentals</a>.
</Aside>

> Below you will find the full code for the [Root Layout](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/pages-and-layouts#root-layout-required)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you will find the full code for the [Root Layout](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/pages-and-layouts#root-layout-required).
```

I like to copy and paste the entire quickstart into Google docs and run a spell and grammar check on it. That catches stuff like this.

> This has the overall structure of our application, the other pages will be added where `{children}` is located.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This has the overall structure of our application. The other pages will be added where `{children}` is located.
```

> There are two items of note:

Reviewer: Why are these of note?

Author: now reading it back, maybe the really are not of note...lol

1. Getting the session information - `const session = await getServerSession(authOptions);`
1. Passing the session to the Login Button - `<LoginButton session={session} />`

> Create a new file named `src/app/layout.tsx` copy the below code for the ChangeBank application.

Reviewer: Not a grammatical sentence.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/layout.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

### Home Page

Create a new file `src/app/page.tsx` which will have the Homepage details. Not much here just an image and another Login button.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/page.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

> ### Account Page (protected)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Account Page
```

Here's the contents of `src/app/account/page.tsx`.
<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/account/page.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

### Make Change Page

Finally, we'll add some business logic for logged in users to make change with the following code in `src/app/makechange/page.tsx`:

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/makechange/page.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

If the user session is not present the user is redirect back the the homepage at the base route. If the user is present then the `MakeChangeForm` is presented. Create a new file located at `/src/components/MakeChangeForm.tsx` with the below code. This component has all of the business logic needed for taking in a dollar amount of money and returning the correct amount of each coin.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/components/MakeChangeForm.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

### Run the Application
You can now open up an incognito window and visit the NextJS app at http://localhost:3000/. Log in with the user account you created when setting up FusionAuth, and you’ll see the email of the user next to a logout button.

```shell

> npm run dev

Reviewer: I get this error message when running through the instructions.

```
Module not found: Can't resolve '../components/LoginLink'
  3 | import { redirect } from 'next/navigation';
  4 | import { authOptions } from './api/auth/[...nextauth]/route';
> 5 | import LoginLink from '../components/LoginLink';
  6 | 
  7 | export default async function Home() {
  8 |   const session = await getServerSession(authOptions);

https://nextjs.org/docs/messages/module-not-found
```

Looks like we're missing installing a `LoginLink` component. Can you add that step in, please?

```
dan@mooreds fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web % ll complete-application/src/components 
total 24
-rw-r--r--  1 dan  staff   482 Sep 21 13:32 LoginButton.tsx
-rw-r--r--  1 dan  staff   390 Sep 21 13:32 LoginLink.tsx
-rw-r--r--  1 dan  staff  1904 Sep 21 13:32 MakeChangeForm.tsx
dan@mooreds fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web % ll changebank/src/components        
total 16
-rw-r--r--  1 dan  staff   482 Sep 21 13:44 LoginButton.tsx
-rw-r--r--  1 dan  staff  1904 Sep 21 13:46 MakeChangeForm.tsx

```

```

Try clicking the `Login` button at the top or center of the screen.

This will take you through the `NextAuth.js` authentication flow. First prompting you to select `Sign in with FusionAuth`. 

You can then login to FusionAuth with Email: `richard@example.com` Password: `password` (as you might expect not ideal for production.)

This will then take you back to the application in the API route it will check for a session and appropriately redirect you to the `/account` route when your session has been established.

## Next Steps
This quickstart is a great way to get a proof of concept up and running quickly, but to run
your application in production, there are some things you're going to want to do.

### FusionAuth Customization
FusionAuth gives you the ability to customize just about everything with the user's experience and your application's integration. This includes

> * [Hosted pages](/docs/v1/tech/themes/) such as login, registration, email verification, and many more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Hosted pages](/docs/v1/tech/themes/) such as login, registration, email verification, and many more
* [Theming the NextJS Auth pages](https://next-auth.js.org/configuration/pages)
```

### Clone The Code
First off, grab the code from the repository and change into that directory.

```
git clone https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web.git
cd fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web
```

### Run FusionAuth Via Docker

In the root directory of the repo you'll find a Docker compose file (docker-compose.yml) and an environment
variables configuration file (.env). Assuming you have Docker installed on your machine, you can stand up
FusionAuth up on your machine with:

```
docker compose up -d
```

This will start three containers, once each for FusionAuth, Postgres, and Elastic.

Here you are using a bootstrapping feature of FusionAuth, called [Kickstart](/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/kickstart).
When FusionAuth comes up for the first time, it will look at the `kickstart/kickstart.json` file and
configure FusionAuth to a certain initial state.

<Aside type="note">
If you ever want to reset the FusionAuth system, delete the volumes created by docker compose by
executing `docker compose down -v`, then re-run `docker compose up -d`.
</Aside>

FusionAuth will be configured with these settings

> * Your client Id is `c2aeeb1e-65cd-43c5-9326-02dce5e03705`.

Reviewer: Please use the same values as the ruby on rails quickstart.

https://fusionauth.io/docs/quickstarts/quickstart-ruby-rails-web

* Your client secret is `2HYT86lWSAntc-mvtHLX5XXEpk9ThcqZb4YEh65CLjA-not-for-prod`.
* Your example username is `richard@example.com` and the password is `password`.
* Your admin username is `admin@example.com` and the password is `password`.
* The base URL of FusionAuth `http://localhost:9011/`.

You can log into the [FusionAuth admin UI](http://localhost:9011/admin) and look around if you want, but with Docker/Kickstart you don’t need to.

> ### Full Example

Reviewer: We don't go through the complete example in any of the other quickstarts.

We should be consistent and either roll this through all of them, or remove it. 

I vote remove, because the complete example process should be outlined in the github repo.

What do you think?

Make sure once again that you are in the directory `complete-application/`.

> Copy the `.env.example` to `.env.local`

Author: done

```shell
cp .env.example .env.local
```

The environment variables will match what is in the `/kickstart/kickstart.json` file that is used when first starting FusionAuth. If you have changed anything, like creating a new Application you will need to update these environment variables accordingly.

`.env.local`
<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/.env.example"}
  lang="ts" />

Install required packages

```shell
npm install
```

> ### Walkthrough Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Authentication
```

Reviewer: We want to mimic the ruby on rails structure.

In this section, you'll set up a basic Next.js application with two pages. 

1. Homepage
1. Account - protected

#### Setup Your Environment

Create a new application using the `npx`.

```shell
npx create-next-app@latest changebank
```

Accept all of the default prompts like below

> ![npx installation defaults](/img/articles/quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web/npx-create-next-app.png)

Reviewer: Please put in the terminal output here.

Reviewer: Also would be awesome if we could specify all of these commands on the command line:

`npx create-next-app@latest changebank --no-tailwind ...`

Is that possible?

Make sure you are in your new directory `changebank`

```shell
cd changebank
```

> Install [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org/getting-started/example), like any tutorial I will show you what this magic does later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org/getting-started/example), which simplifies integrating with FusionAuth and creating a secure web application.
```

```shell
npm install next-auth
```

Copy environment variables from our complete application example.

```shell
cp ../complete-application/.env.example .env.local
```

Also copy an image file into a new directory within `public` called `img`.

```shell
mkdir ./public/img && cp ../complete-application/public/img/money.jpg ./public/img/money.jpg
```

As you will be recreating all of the files in our app directory, please delete all files within `/src/app`.

```shell
rm -rf ./src/app && mkdir ./src/app
```

#### Authentication API

Next.js 13.2 introduced <a href="https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/router-handlers" target="_blank">Route Handlers</a>, which are the preferred way to handle REST-like requests. In the `Changebank` application you can configure NextAuth.js FusionAuth's provider in a new route handler by creating a file within `src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts`.

On first load of Next.js this file will make sure that you have all of the correct environment variables. The variables are then exported in an object called `authOptions` which can be imported on the server when you need to get our session using `getServerSession`.

> The `FusionAuthProvider` is then provided to `NextAuth` as a provider for any `GET` or `POST` commands that are sent to the `/api/auth/*` route.

Reviewer: Since I just removed `src/app` per your instructions, I don't know how to create this file. Do I need to create some directories?

Author: I am not sure I follow, you should just be creating the file `src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts`

Is the issue that you would like to create all these directories separately?

I usually create any file like this...
<img width="369" alt="image" src="https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/assets/139158618/bca78940-4ad9-4240-bf4b-c82672eb3540">

`src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts`
<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts"}
  lang="ts" />

#### Styles

> Create a new file `src/app/globals.css` copy the below CSS for the changebank application.

Reviewer: Not a complete sentence.

> `src/app/globals.css`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's the contents of `src/app/globals.css`.

```

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/globals.css"}
  lang="ts" />

> #### Login Button

Reviewer: Should review all the header indentation. I think we need to change everything under the walkthrough example to three `#`

Create a new file in `src/components/login-button.tsx` that will be used for a button component. Our login button will only be used on the client side so make sure to add `use client` at the top of this file.
For this button you can use the `signIn` and `signOut` functions from `next-auth/react`. By passing in the session from our pages you can determine if the `Log in` or `Log out` should be shown. (Yeah I know if we could have all decided on Log in or Sign in over the last 20 years that would have been great!)

> `src/components/login-button.tsx`

Reviewer: Please fix this to be like other file references above.

> <RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/components/login-button.tsx"}

Reviewer: This was not found.

  lang="ts" />

#### Layout

<Aside type="tip">

> If this is your first time using Next.js's App Router, I would highly suggest reading through at least the <a href="https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing" target="_blank">Routing Fundamentals</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this is your first time using Next.js's App Router, I would highly suggest reading through at least the <a href="https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing" target="_blank">Routing Fundamentals</a>.
```

</Aside>

Below you will find the full code for the [Root Layout](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/pages-and-layouts#root-layout-required)

This has the overall structure of our application, the other pages will be added where `{children}` is located.

There are two items of note:
1. Getting the session information - `const session = await getServerSession(authOptions);`
1. Passing the session to the Login Button - `<LoginButton session={session} />`

> `src/app/layout.tsx`

Reviewer: File name issue.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/layout.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

#### Home Page

Create a new file `src/app/page.tsx` which will have the Homepage details. Not much here just an image and another Login button.

> `src/app/page.tsx`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/page.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

#### Account Page (protected)

> Create a new file `src/app/account/page.tsx` which will have the Account details.

Reviewer: Do I need to create a directory here? I think so.

Author: Is your thought that we should call out all directories and that the relative path is not enough? 🤷‍♂️
<img width="290" alt="image" src="https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/assets/139158618/abe757d6-6ce9-4bb6-a88e-a3ae9a115908">

One special note here is that there is a check to see if the session is missing. If it is, you redirect back to the homepage which protects this page on the server for unauthorized access. (You can find the same when a user is logged in on the homepage, it will redirect to `/account`)

> `src/app/account/page.tsx`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's the contents of `src/app/account/page.tsx`.
```

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/account/page.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

### Run the Application

> Run your Next.js application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now open up an incognito window and visit the NextJS app at http://localhost:3000/ . Log in with the user account you created when setting up FusionAuth, and you’ll see the email of the user next to a logout button.
```

> <Aside type="caution">

Reviewer: Let's strike this.

If you did the `Full Example` make sure you are in the directory `complete-application` if you did the `Walkthrough Example` make sure you are in the `changebank` directory.
</Aside>

```shell
npm run dev
```

Try clicking the `Login` button at the top or center of the screen.

> ![Changebank Home Page](/img/articles/quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web/homepage.png)

Reviewer: We don't have any other images in any of the other quickstarts. Do we want to roll these through? I don't think so, but we can discuss if you feel strongly.

Author: I think this gets back to my visual nature. Adding the quickstart videos solves this for me.

> 

Reviewer: Not sure about the rest of this. This feels like an upgrade to our quickstarts but I want to remain consistent. Let's discuss.

Author: That is fair. I think the videos would do more justice :D Happy to chat about it.

Author: removed photos

![Changebank Account Page](/img/articles/quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web/account.png)

<Aside type="tip">
You could add additional [NextAuth providers](https://next-auth.js.org/providers/) within `complete-application/src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts`. However, another great part about having FusionAuth setup is that you can have a centralized customer identity and access management [CIAM](https://fusionauth.io/articles/ciam/).
</Aside>

## Next Steps
This quickstart is a great way to get a proof of concept up and running quickly, but to run
your application in production, there are some things you're going to want to do.

### FusionAuth Customization
FusionAuth gives you the ability to customize just about everything with the user's experience and your application's integration. This includes
* [Hosted pages](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/themes/) such as login, registration, email verification, and many more
* [Email templates](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/email-templates/email-templates)
* [User data and custom claims in access token JWTs](https://fusionauth.io/articles/tokens/jwt-components-explained)

### Security

> * You may want to customize the [token expiration times and policies](https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/oauth/#configure-application-oauth-settings) in FusionAuth

Reviewer: Any nextauth docs we can reference here?

color: green
coderoot: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web/main
cta: EmailListCTA
---
import Aside from '/src/components/Aside.astro';
import LoginAfter from '../../diagrams/quickstarts/login-after.astro';
import LoginBefore from '../../diagrams/quickstarts/login-before.astro';
import RemoteCode from '/src/components/RemoteCode.astro';

In this quickstart you are going to build an application with Express and integrate it with FusionAuth.
You'll be building it for [ChangeBank](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pkH-kD73QUM), a global leader in converting dollars into coins.
It'll have areas reserved for users who have logged in as well as public facing sections.

The docker compose file and source code for a complete application are available at
https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web

## Prerequisites
* [Node LTS](https://nodejs.org/en/download)
* [Docker](https://www.docker.com): The quickest way to stand up FusionAuth. (There are [other ways](/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/)).
* [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads/): Not required but recommended if you want to track your changes.

> ## General architecture

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## General Architecture
```

While this sample application doesn't have login functionality without FusionAuth, a more typical integration will replace an existing login system with FusionAuth.

In that case, the system might look like this before FusionAuth is introduced.

<LoginBefore alt={"Request flow during login before FusionAuth"}/>

The login flow will look like this after FusionAuth is introduced.

<LoginAfter alt={"Request flow during login after FusionAuth"}/>

In general, you are introducing FusionAuth in order to normalize and consolidate user data. This helps make sure it is consistent and up-to-date as well as offloading your login security and functionality to FusionAuth.

## Getting Started
In this section, you'll get FusionAuth up and running, and configured with the ChangeBank application.

> ### Clone the Code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Clone The Code
```

First off, grab the code from the repository and change into that directory.

```
git clone https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web.git
cd fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web
```

> ### Run FusionAuth via Docker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Run FusionAuth Via Docker
```

`.env.local`
<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/.env.example"}
  lang="ts" />

Install required packages

```shell
npm install
```

### Walkthrough Example

In this section, you'll set up a basic Next.js application with two pages. 

1. Homepage
1. Account - protected

#### Setup Your Environment

Create a new application using the `npx`.

```shell
npx create-next-app@latest changebank
```

Accept all of the default prompts like below

![npx installation defaults](/img/articles/quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web/npx-create-next-app.png)

Make sure you are in your new directory `changebank`

```shell
cd changebank
```

Install [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org/getting-started/example), like any tutorial I will show you what this magic does later.

```shell
npm install next-auth
```

Copy environment variables from our complete application example.

```shell
cp ../complete-application/.env.example .env.local
```

Also copy an image file into a new directory within `public` called `img`.

```shell
mkdir ./public/img && cp ../complete-application/public/img/money.jpg ./public/img/money.jpg
```

> As we will be recreating all of the files in our app directory, please delete all files within `/src/app`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you will be recreating all of the files in our app directory, please delete all files within `/src/app`.
```

```shell
rm -rf ./src/app && mkdir ./src/app
```

> 

Author: I feel like calling out the paths is enough in the files like...
`src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts`

I don't like to prescribe as much if they are on mac vs. windows for commands, or just feel more comfortable in VSCode clicking the make directory button.

#### Authentication API

> Next.js 13.2 introduced <a href="https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/router-handlers" target="_blank">Route Handlers</a>, which are the preferred way to handle REST-like requests. In the `Changebank` application we can configure NextAuth.js FusionAuth's provider in a new route handler by creating a file within `src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next.js 13.2 introduced <a href="https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/router-handlers" target="_blank">Route Handlers</a>, which are the preferred way to handle REST-like requests. In the `Changebank` application you can configure NextAuth.js FusionAuth's provider in a new route handler by creating a file within `src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts`.
```

> On first load of Next.js this file will make sure that we have all of the correct environment variables. The variables are then exported in an object called `authOptions` which can be imported on the server when we need to get our session using `getServerSession`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On first load of Next.js this file will make sure that you have all of the correct environment variables. The variables are then exported in an object called `authOptions` which can be imported on the server when you need to get our session using `getServerSession`.
```

The `FusionAuthProvider` is then provided to `NextAuth` as a provider for any `GET` or `POST` commands that are sent to the `/api/auth/*` route.

`src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts`
<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts"}
  lang="ts" />

#### Styles

Create a new file `src/app/globals.css` copy the below CSS for the changebank application.

`src/app/globals.css`
<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/globals.css"}
  lang="ts" />

#### Login Button

> 

Author: same as above I don't like to prescribe as much if they are on mac vs. windows for commands, or just feel more comfortable in VSCode clicking the make directory button.

Create a new file in ``src/components/login-button.tsx` that will be used for a button component. Our login button will only be used on the client side so make sure to add `use client` at the top of this file.

> For this button we can use the `signIn` and `signOut` functions from `next-auth/react`. By passing in the session from our pages we can determine if the `Log in` or `Log out` should be shown. (Yeah I know if we could have all decided on Log in or Sign in over the last 20 years that would have been great!)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this button you can use the `signIn` and `signOut` functions from `next-auth/react`. By passing in the session from our pages you can determine if the `Log in` or `Log out` should be shown. (Yeah I know if we could have all decided on Log in or Sign in over the last 20 years that would have been great!)
```

There are two items of note:
1. Getting the session information - `const session = await getServerSession(authOptions);`
1. Passing the session to the Login Button - `<LoginButton session={session} />`

`src/app/layout.tsx`
<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/layout.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

#### Home Page

Create a new file `src/app/page.tsx` which will have the Homepage details. Not much here just an image and another Login button.

`src/app/page.tsx`
<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/page.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

#### Account Page (protected)

Create a new file `src/app/account/page.tsx` which will have the Account details.

One special note here is that we check to see if the session is missing we redirect back to the homepage, which protects this page on the server for unauthorized access. (You can find the same when a user is logged in on the homepage, it will redirect to `/account`)

```ts
if (!session) {
  redirect('/');
}
```

`src/app/account/page.tsx`
<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/src/app/account/page.tsx"}
  lang="ts" />

> ### Run the App!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Run The Application
```

Run your Next.js application. 

<Aside type="caution">
If you did the `Full Example` make sure you are in the directory `complete-application` if you did the `Walkthrough Example` make sure you are in the `changebank` directory.
</Aside>

```shell
npm run dev
```

Try clicking the `Login` button at the top or center of the screen.

![Changebank Home Page](/img/articles/quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web/homepage.png)

This will take you through the `NextAuth.js` authentication flow. First prompting you to select `Sign in with FusionAuth`. 

![Changebank NextAuth.js prompt](/img/articles/quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web/nextauth.png)

You can then login to FusionAuth with Email: `richard@example.com` Password: `password` (as you might expect not ideal for production.)

![FusionAuth Login Form](/img/articles/quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web/fusionauth-login.png)

> This will then take you back to the application in the API route it will check for a session and appropriately redirect you to the `/account` route when your session has been establised.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will then take you back to the application in the API route it will check for a session and appropriately redirect you to the `/account` route when your session has been established.
```

![Changebank Account Page](/img/articles/quickstart-javascript-nextjs-web/account.png)

<Aside type="tip">
You could add additional [NextAuth providers](https://next-auth.js.org/providers/) within `complete-application/src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts`. However, another great part about having FusionAuth setup is that you can have a centralized customer identity and access management [CIAM](https://fusionauth.io/articles/ciam/).
</Aside>

## Next Steps
This quickstart is a great way to get a proof of concept up and running quickly, but to run

> you application in production, there are some things you're going to want to do.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
your application in production, there are some things you're going to want to do.
```
